>> Ifill: THE WHITE HOUSE
PRESSED LAWMAKERS TO HOLD OFF ON
NEW SANCTIONS THAT COULD
COMPLICATE THE INTERIM NUCLEAR
DEAL WITH IRAN.
WE TALK TO THE LEAD U.S.
NEGOTIATOR AT THE NUCLEAR TALKS,
WENDY SHERMAN.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD, PRESIDENT OBAMA WAS
OUT MAKING HIS HEALTH-CARE PITCH
TO YOUNG AMERICANS TODAY.
BUT A NEW SURVEY OF THEIR
POLITICS SAYS THEY MIGHT NOT BE
BUYING IN.
>> BY A MARGIN OF ABOUT 2 TO
1, PEOPLE BELIEVE THAT THE
QUALITY OF CARE WILL
ACTUALLY G WORETSE UNDER THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
A SOLID MAJORITY DISAPPROVE
OF THE ACT AS OF TODAY.
>> Ifill: AND THE "WOMEN OF
VISION" BEHIND PHOTOS OF WAR,
POVERTY, AND CULTURES NEAR AND
FAR, SHOWCASED AS PART OF THE
NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY'S
125th ANNIVERSARY.
>> IT IS THE TOUGHER STORY
ABOUT HUMANITY.
EVERYTHING GOES BACK TO
HONORING MY SUBJECT.
I THINK THAT THE STORY HAS
TO BE TOLD.
I FEEL THOUGH STRONGLY THAT
THESE STORIES NEED TO BE
SEEN BY THE AMERICAN PUBLIC.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S "PBS NEWSHOUR."
>> Woodruff: TENSIONS IN THE
EAST CHINA SEA HOVERED OVER VICE
PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN'S VISIT TO
BEIJING TODAY.
U.S. OFFICIALS SAY HE AND
CHINESE PRESIDENT XI JINPING
TRADED ARGUMENTS OVER CHINA'S
NEW AIR DEFENSE ZONE AROUND
ISLANDS THAT JAPAN ALSO CLAIMS.
LATER, IN A SUBDUED SESSION WITH
REPORTERS, NEITHER MAN MENTIONED
THE ISSUE.
DIPLOMACY IS NEEDED FROM BOTH
>> ( translated ): BOTH THE
INTERNATIONAL SITUATION AND THE
REGIONAL LANDSCAPE ARE
UNDERGOING PROFOUND AND COMPLEX
CHANGES.
REGIONAL HOTSPOT ISSUES KEEP
POPPING UP, AND CHINA AND THE
UNITED STATES SHOULDER IMPORTANT
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR UPHOLDING
WORLD PEACE AND STABILITY AND
PROMOTING HUMAN DEVELOPMENT AND
PROGRESS.
>> Woodruff: THE STATE-RUN
ENGLISH NEWSPAPER "CHINA DAILY"
WAS FAR LESS DIPLOMATIC.
IN A BLUNTLY WORDED EDITORIAL,
IT ACCUSED THE U.S. OF CASTING A
BLIND EYE TO JAPANESE
PROVOCATIONS.
THE EDITORIAL WENT ON TO SAY:
"DESPITE TRYING TO PRESENT THE
IMAGE OF BEING AN IMPARTIAL
MEDIATOR, WASHINGTON HAS
OBVIOUSLY TAKEN JAPAN'S SIDE."
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION HAS
IMPOSED FINES OF $2.3 BILLION ON
MAJOR U.S. AND EUROPEAN BANKS,
OVER RIGGING INTEREST RATES.
TODAY'S ANNOUNCEMENT NAMED J.P.
MORGAN, CITIGROUP AND
H.S.B.C., AMONG OTHERS.
THEY WERE ACCUSED OF
MANIPULATING EUROPEAN AND
JAPANESE BENCHMARK RATES BETWEEN
2005 AND 2010.
THE RATES AFFECT EVERYTHING FROM
MORTGAGES TO CREDIT CARD BILLS.
HERE IN THE U.S., A BITTER COLD
AND SNOW FRONT PUSHED
ACROSS THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS
TODAY.
EXTREMELY LOW TEMPERATURES
DOTTED THE LANDSCAPE, AND WITH
WIND CHILLS COULD REACH 30
DEGREES BELOW ZERO IN PARTS OF
MONTANA.
THE STORM HAS SPREAD SNOW ACROSS
THE REGION, CAUSING TREACHEROUS
DRIVING CONDITIONS THAT WERE
BLAMED FOR AT LEAST SIX DEATHS.
ANOTHER STORM IS CLOSE ON THE
HEELS OF THIS ONE, EXPECTED
LATER IN THE WEEK.
THE PACE OF ENROLLMENT ON THE
healthcare.gov WEBSITE IS
IMPROVING SOME.
IT WAS WIDELY REPORTED TODAY
THAT 29,000 PEOPLE SIGNED UP
SUNDAY AND MONDAY-- THE FIRST
TWO DAYS AFTER THE MISTAKE-PRONE
SITE WAS RELAUNCHED.
THAT TOPS THE TOTAL FOR THE
ENTIRE MONTH OF OCTOBER.
PRESIDENT OBAMA TALKED UP THE
LAW'S BENEFITS IN WASHINGTON
TODAY, AND BRUSHED ASIDE RISING
DISAPPROVAL IN PUBLIC POLLS.
>> MORE PEOPLE WITHOUT INSURANCE
HAVE GAINED INSURANCE, MORE THAN
THREE MILLION YOUNG AMERICANS
WHO'VE BEEN ABLE TO STAY ON
THEIR PARENTS' PLAN, THE MORE
THAN HALF A MILLION AMERICANS
AND COUNTING WHO ARE POISED TO
GET COVERAGE STARTING ON JANUARY
1, SOME FOR THE VERY FIRST TIME.
AND IT IS THESE NUMBERS, NOT THE
ONES IN ANY POLL, THAT WILL
ULTIMATELY DETERMINE THE FATE OF
THIS LAW.
>> Woodruff: REPUBLICANS SAID
THE NEW NUMBERS ON ENROLLMENT
ARE COLD COMFORT TO MILLIONS
WHO'VE HAD THEIR COVERAGE
CANCELED OR FACE HIGHER
PREMIUMS.
9-1-1 PHONE CALLS FROM SANDY
HOOK ELEMENTARY SCHOOL, DURING
LAST YEAR'S MASS SHOOTING, WERE
MADE PUBLIC TODAY.
THE SEVEN RECORDINGS REVEALED
POLICE DISPATCHERS IN NEWTOWN,
CONNECTICUT, URGING CALLERS TO
TAKE COVER, EVEN AS GUNFIRE
ECHOED.
20 CHILDREN AND SIX EDUCATORS
WERE SHOT TO DEATH BY 20-YEAR-
OLD ADAM LANZA.
A JUDGE ORDERED THE AUDIO
MATERIAL RELEASED UNDER THE
STATE'S FREEDOM OF INFORMATION
LAW.
THE SUSPECTED GUNMAN IN THE
DEADLY SHOOTING AT LOS ANGELES
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT HAS MADE
HIS FIRST COURT APPEARANCE.
PAUL CIANCIA ENTERED NO PLEA
TODAY TO CHARGES HE KILLED AN
AIRPORT SECURITY OFFICER AND
WOUNDED THREE OTHER PEOPLE LAST
MONTH.
HE WAS DENIED BAIL.
THE 23-YEAR-OLD SUSPECT WAS
WOUNDED BY POLICE DURING THE
ATTACK.
IN ECONOMIC NEWS, A SURVEY OF
LEADING CORPORATE CHIEF
EXECUTIVES FOUND THEY'RE MORE
OPTIMISTIC AND PLAN TO INCREASE
HIRING.
AT THE SAME TIME, GROWTH AT
SERVICE SECTOR COMPANIES LTAS
MONTH WAS THE WEAKEST SINCE
JUNE.
THE CONFLICTING DATA LEFT WALL
STREET LOOKING FOR DIRECTION.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST ALMOST 25 POINTS TO CLOSE
AT 15,889.
THE NASDAQ ROSE A FRACTION OF A
POINT TO CLOSE AT 4,038.
THERE'S WORD TODAY THAT THE
GREAT MAJORITY OF AMERICAN
SILENT FILMS ARE NOW GONE
FOREVER.
THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS REPORTED
70% OF THE 11,000 FEATURE-LENGTH
MOVIES HAVE BEEN LOST OR
DESTROYED.
ONLY 14% STILL EXIST IN THEIR
ORIGINAL FORMAT.
THAT'S DUE IN PART TO THE
NITRATE FILM STOCK, WHICH WAS
ESPECIALLY VULNERABLE TO DECAY
AND FIRE.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE "NEWSHOUR": NEGOTIATING WITH
IRAN; THE BATTLE OVER PUBLIC
PENSIONS; A WARNING OF GENOCIDE
IN THE CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC;
CAPTURING WAR, POVERTY AND
CULTURE ON CAMERA.
PLUS, HOW YOUNG PEOPLE VIEW THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
>> Ifill: NOW, TO AN INSIDER'S
LOOK AT THE INTERIM AGREEMENT
OVER IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM AND
THE UPHILL BATTLE FACING THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION.
EVER SINCE FOREIGN MINISTERS
CLOSED THE  NUCLEAR DEAL WITH
IRAN, TEN DAYS AGO, THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION HAS BEEN TRYING
TO WIN OVER A SKEPTICAL CONGRESS
AND STAVE OFF NEW SANCTIONS.
TODAY, WENDY SHERMAN, THE LEAD
U.S. NEGOTIATOR IN GENEVA, HELD
A CLOSED BRIEFING TODAY FOR
MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE.
REPUBLICAN TRENT FRANKS OF
ARIZONA IS AMONG THE LAWMAKERS
WHO HAVE CALLED THE AGREEMENT A
BAD DEAL.
>> SEEMS LIKE THERE'S GENERAL
NOTION THAT WE'RE AFRAID TO
ALLOW IRAN TO QUESTION OUR
SINCERITY WHEN WE SHOULD BE
QUESTIONING THEIRS.
IRAN HAS GIVEN NO CONCESSION OF
ANY KIND FOR 30 YEARS.
AND YET WE ARE NOW TAKING SOME
OF OUR MOST POWERFUL INDUCEMENTS
OFF THE TABLE.
>> Ifill: MICHIGAN DEMOCRAT DAN
KILDEE WAS MILDER IN HIS
CRITICISM, BUT HE SAID THE U.S.
HAS TO PROCEED VERY CAREFULLY.
>> WE HAVE TO BE VERY CAUTIOUS
WITH THIS STATE, AND VERY
SKEPTICAL AND REALIZE THAT THE
REASON THAT WE'RE IN THE
POSITION WE'RE IN RIGHT NOW, IS
THAT THE SANCTIONS ARE WORKING,
AND THE SANCTIONS NEED TO BE NOT
JUST SEEN ONLY AS A PENALTY, BUT
AS AN INDUCEMENT TO BETTER
BEHAVIOR.
>> Ifill: UNDER THE AGREEMENT, A
LIMITED NUMBER OF ECONOMIC
SANCTIONS WOULD BE EASED FOR SIX
MONTHS.
IN EXCHANGE, IRAN WOULD AGREE TO
NEUTRALIZE ITS STOCKPILE OF
URANIUM, ALREADY ENRICHED TO
20%, A BIG STEP TOWARD REACHING
WEAPONS-GRADE; STOP ENRICHING
ANY URANIUM BEYOND 5% PURITY;
STOP INSTALLING NEW CENTRIFUGES
OR BUILDING NEW FACILITIES TO
ENRICH URANIUM AND GRANT NEW AND
GREATER ACCESS TO INTERNATIONAL
INSPECTORS.
IRAN ALSO AGREED TO HALT WORK AT
ITS ARAK PLUTONIUM FACILITY.
BUT DEMOCRATIC AND REPUBLICAN
LAWMAKERS WERE UNMOVED BY THE
IRANIAN CONCESSIONS, AND WANT TO
TOUGHEN SANCTIONS INSTEAD.
WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY JAY
CARNEY ARGUED AGAINST THAT
APPROACH YESTERDAY.
>> IT WOULD MAKE MORE SENSE TO
HOLD OUR POWDER, OR KEEP OUR
POWDER DRY RATHER UNTIL WE SEE
WHETHER IRAN VIOLATES THE
UNDERSTANDING WE HAVE REACHED
AND ACT ACCORDINGLY AT THAT
TIME.
IF WE PASS SANCTIONS NOW EVEN
WITH A DEFERRED TRIGGER, WHICH
HAS BEEN DISCUSSED, THE IRANIANS
AND LIKELY OUR INTERNATIONAL
PARTNERS WILL SEE US AS HAVING
NEGOTIATED IN BAD FAITH AND THIS
WOULD HAVE A BEARING ON OUR CORE
SANCTIONS ARCHITECTURE.
>> Ifill: INDEED, IRANIAN
PRESIDENT HASSAN ROUHANI HAD
MADE CLEAR THAT HIS GOVERNMENT
WANTS TO GET RID OF ALL ECONOMIC
PUNISHMENT PERMANENTLY.
>> ( translated ): THE CRUELTY
WITH WHICH OUR PEOPLE ARE
TREATED MUST BE LIFTED.
THIS IS OUR GOAL; WE SHOULD
DISPOSE OF THE THREATS.
WE WILL RESOLVE THE THREATS.
OUR GOAL IS TO BREAK THE
SANCTIONS AND TAKE THEM OUT OF
THE PEOPLE'S WAY.
>> Ifill: ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU HAS BEEN
HIGHLY AND PUBLICLY CRITICAL OF
THE DEAL REACHED IN GENEVA.
BUT SOME FORMER SECURITY CHIEFS
SAY THAT NEGOTIATIONS WITH IRAN
SHOULD BE PURSUED.
AND FORMER ISRAELI PRIME
MINISTER EHUD OLMERT ACCUSED
NETANYAHU OF, QUOTE, "WAGING
WAR" ON THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION.
NEGOTIATORS ARE EXPECTED TO MEET
WITH IRAN IN VIENNA NEXT WEEK
JUST AS THE SENATE RETURNS TO
TACKLE THE SANCTIONS ISSUE.
FOR MORE ON THE NUCLEAR DEAL
WITH IRAN, I'M JOINED BY WENDY
SHERMAN, THE UNDER SECRETARY OF
STATE FOR POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
SHE WAS THE LEAD NEGOTIATOR OF
THE AGREEMENT.
WELCOME FOLLOW NEWSHOUR
AGAIN.
>> THANK YOU, GOOD TO BE
WITH YOU.
>> Ifill: THIS NUCLEAR DEAL
THAT WAS CUT IN GENEVA, WILL
IT HOLD?
>> I THINK IT WILL HOLDMENT
BECAUSE IT'S IN IRAN'S
INTEREST FOR IT TO HOLD.
IRAN IS LOOKING FOR SOME
ECONOMIC RELIEF.
THERE'S VERY LITTLE IN THIS
AGREEMENT THAT IS THE FIRST
STEP TOWARDS A COMPREHENSIVE
AGREEMENT WHICH WILL GIVE
THEM THE ECONOMIC RELIEF
THEY'RE LOOKING FOR.
>> Ifill: COULD IT HAVE
HAPPENED WITHOUT THIS SECRET
BILATERAL TALKS THAT WERE
HAPPENING ON THE SIDE?
WE HEARD ABOUT THE PUBLIC
ONES IN GENEVA.
IT TURNS OUT THERE WERE A
LOT OF PROOF AT ONES TOO.
>> THERE WERE PRIVATE
CONVERSATIONS.
AND THAT HELPED TO DEEPEN
THE CONVERSATION.
BUT ALL OF THE ISSUES THAT
AROSE IN THAT PRIVATE
BILATERAL CONVERSATION ALSO
ROSE IN THE P5 PLUS 1 AN I
THINK VERY EFFECTIVELY.
THE P-5 USED THE BILATERAL
CHANNELS AND OTHER BILATERAL
DISCUSSIONS THAT WERE GOING
ON WITH OTHER PARTNERS TO
GET TO THIS AGREEMENT.
>> Ifill: SO YOU WORKED OUT
WAS VERY COMPLICATED,
TEMPORARY FIRST STEP
AGREEMENT AND COME HOME TO
WASHINGTON AND FIND OUT THAT
A THIRD-- ON CAPITOL HILL
WHERE YOU SPENT PART OF YOUR
DAY TODAY.
YOU ARE HOPING TO TALK
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS OUT OF
IMPOSING FURTHER SANCTIONS.
>> HOW IS THAT GOING?
>> WELL, IT'S A TOUGH ROAD
BECAUSE UNDERSTANDABLY
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS HAVE
PLAYED A VERY KATE CALL ROLE
HERE.
IT IS, IN FACT, THE
SANCTIONS REGIME THAT HAS
SUPPORTED INTERNATIONALLY
THROUGH U.N. SECURITY
COUNCIL RESOLUTIONS, U.S.
ACTIONS, BOTH IN THE
CONGRESS AND THROUGH THE
EXECUTIVE BRANCH BY THE
PRESIDENT, BY THE EUROPEAN
UNION AND OTHER NATIONS THAT
HAS BROUGHT IRAN TO THE
TABLE.
BECAUSE THEY ARE LOOKING FOR
SANCTIONS RELIEF.
SO I UNDERSTAND WHY THE
CONGRESS BELIEVES THAT MORE
SANCTIONS CAN ONLY BE
BETTER.
I AGREE UP TO A POINT
BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT BROUGHT
THEM TO THE TABLE.
BUT, IN FACT, SANCTIONS WERE
MEANT TO CHANGE THE
STRATEGIC CALCULUS OF IRAN
TO COME TO THAT NEGOTIATING
TABLE.
NOW WE HAVE TO TEST THAT
RESOLVE TO GET TO AN
AGREEMENT.
AND ANY MORE SANCTIONS AT
THIS MOMENT BY THE U.S.
CONGRESS WOULD UNDERMINE THE
AGREEMENT WHICH CALLS FOR A
PAUSE BY EVERYBODY IN THAT
REGARD.
AND, IN FACT, MIGHT GIVE
THEM AN EXCUSE TO DEPART
FROM THE AGREEMENT THAT'S
BEEN MADE.
>> Ifill: BUT IN LIFTING OR
EASING THOSE SANCTIONS, EVEN
FOR SIX MONTHS, EVEN FOR A
TEMPORARY PERIOD, DON'T YOU
LOSE SOME LEVERAGE.
ISN'T THAT THE ARGUMENT
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS ARE
MAKING.
>> THEY MADE THAT ARGUMENT
BUT THERE FACT, THE
SANCTIONS WE ARE SUSPEND
READY QUITE LIMITED, QUITE
TARGETED AND ALL REVERSIBLE.
SO WE LOSE ABSOLUTELY NO
LEVERAGE IN THIS REGARD.
AND THE FUNDAMENTAL
ARCHITECTURE AROUND BANKING
AND OIL SANCTIONS THAT WE
HAVE, THAT THE EUROPEAN
UNION HAS, ALL REMAIN IN
PLACE.
SO WHAT IRAN REALLY WANTS
ISN'T AVAILABLE TO THEM
UNLESS WE GET TO A
COMPREHENSIVE AGREEMENT THAT
WE CAN AGREE TO.
>> Ifill: WHAT IRAN REALLY
WANTS IN PART IS TO CONTINUE
ENRICHING IN SOME FASHION,
WHATEVER YOU BELIEVE,
NUCLEAR ENRICHMENT.
DOES THIS DEAL STOP THAT?
>> WELL, THIS DEAL DOESN'T
STOP IT IN THE FIRST STEP
BECAUSE IT IS JUST A
SUSPENSION.
BUT IT DOES STOP ALL OF THE
ENRICHMENT OVER 5%.
AND THAT'S VERY IMPORTANT.
BECAUSE THE HIGHER YOU GET
UP ON THE SCALE THE MORE
QUICKLY YOU CAN GET TO
WEAPONS GRADE URANIUM WHICH
IS NEEDED FOR FIS IL
MATERIAL FOR A NUCLEAR
WEAPON.
SO NOW THEY CAN'T ENRICH
OVER 5%, EVEN IN THIS FIRST
STEP.
BUT THE FACT REMAINS THAT
WE'VE ALSO SAID IN THIS
AGREEMENT THAT WHEN WE GET
TO A COMPREHENSIVE AGREEMENT,
WE WOULD CONSIDER A LIMITED,
MODEST ENRICHMENT PROGRAM IF
IT IS ATTACHED TO REAL,
PRACTICAL NEEDS AND IF, IN
FACT, THEY AGREE TO ALL THE
MONITORING AND ALL OF THE
INTRUSIVE VERIFICATION THAT
IS NEEDED ON LIMITED THE
SCOPE, THE CAPACITY, OF THE
STOCKPILES AND EVERYTHING
THAT THEY DO.
>> Ifill: SO SOME OF THAT
MONITORING STARTS THIS
WEEKENDMENT BUT YOU BELIEVE,
JUST AS FACT, THAT THERE IS
A PLAUSIBLE, CIVILIAN USE
FOR NUCLEAR ENRICHMENT?
>> THERE MAY BE.
BUT THIS IS ALL PART OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE AGREEMENT
WHICH WE WILL BEGIN TO
NEGOTIATE VERY QUICKLY.
AND, INDEED, IF WE CANNOT
GET THE KINDS OF AGREEMENT
WE NEED, THE KINDS OF
LIMITATIONS WE NEED, THEN
THERE WILL NOT BE AN
AGREEMENT AND WE WILL REVERT
TO WHERE WE ARE WITH THESE
SANCTIONS, ADDITIONAL
SANCTIONS AND THE U.N.
SECURITY RESOLUTIONS WHICH
ARE QUITE CRITICAL AND MUST
BE ADDRESSED BEFORE ANY
FINAL AGREEMENT IS REACHED.
>> HOW CLOSE WOULD YOU SAY
IRAN IS TO BEING ABLE TO
DEVELOP A NUCLEAR WEAPON
RIGHT NOW IF THEY WEREN'T
UNDER THIS PAUSE?
>> WELL, I THINK THERE ARE
IN2E8 AGAINST ASSESSMENTS
WHICH I CAN'T SHARE WITH THE
AUDIENCE.
BUT PUBLICLY MANY ANALYSTS
HAVE SAID THAT IF THE
SUPREME LEADER DECIDED TODAY
AND HE IS THE ONLY ONE WHO
MAKES THESE DECISIONS IN THE
FINAL ANALYSIS, IF THEY
DECIDED TODAY T WOULD
PROBABLY BE-- BE AT LEAST A
YEAR AWAY BEFORE THEY HAD A
NUCLEAR WEAPON.
AND OF COURSE THEY NOT ON
HAVE TO BUILD THE WEAPON BUT
A DELIVERY SYSTEM TO CARRY
IT.
>> Ifill: DOES IT STILL
ALLOW U.N. INSPECTORS,
INTERNATIONAL INSPECTORS
ACCESS TO MILITARY BASES
WHERE THEY MIGHT HAVE
EVIDENCE TO SUPPORT THIS?
>> WELL, INDEED, THIS IS
PROBABLY AN EXTRAORDINARY
INTRUSIVE MONITORING REGIME
THAT WAS PUT IN PLACE EVEN
WITH THIS FIRST STEP.
THERE WILL BE DAILY
INSPECTORS AT THE TWO
ENRICHMENT FACILITIES.
THERE WILL BE AT LEAST
MONTHLY ACCESS TO IRAQ, THE
PLUTONIUM REACTOR THEY ARE
TRYING TO BUILD THAT WE HAVE
HALTED ANY ADVANCE ON, EVEN
THIS FIRST STEP.
THERE WILL BE MANAGED ACCESS
TO URANIUM MINES AND MILLS,
TO CENTRIFUGE PRODUCTION.
THINGS WE HAVE NEVER, EVER
HAD BEFORE.
THAT WILL HELP US TO MAKE
SURE THAT THEY CANNOT DIVERT
THINGS.
THEY CANNOT HAVE A COVERT
PROGRAM.
AND IT WILL GIVE US GREAT
INSIGHT INTO WHAT THEY ARE
DOING.
THESE ARE ALL FIRSTS THAT WE
HAVE NEVER HAD BEFORE.
>> Ifill: IS IT FAIR TO SAY
THAT AS DIFFICULT AS IT WAS
GETTING TO THIS FIRST STEP,
AS YOU CALL IT, THAT IT WILL
BE TEN TIMES AS DIFFICULT
GETTING TO THE NEXT ONE?
>> I THINK GETTING TO A
COMPREHENSIVE AGREEMENT WILL
BE VERY, VERY DIFFICULT.
>> Ifill: DOES IT INCLUDE
FULL DISMANTLING.
>> THIS INCLUDES A LOT OF
DISMANTLING OF THEIR
INFRASTRUCTURE BECAUSE,
QUITE FRANKLY, WE'RE NOT
SURE WHAT YOU NEED-- A 40
WATT HEAVY MEGAWATT REACT
FOR ANY CIVILIAN PEACEFUL
PURPOSE.
AND AT THE END OF THE DAY
WHAT IS CRITICAL HERE IS
THAT THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY, AND THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA MUST HAVE
FULL CONFIDENCE THAT IRAN
TRULY HAS A PEACEFUL
PROGRAM.
>> Ifill: YOU KNOW WHO DOES
NOT HAVE THAT CONFIDENCE
THAT WOULD BE ISRAEL.
>> INDEED.
>> Ifill: AND WHAT ARE YOU
SAYING TO THEM IN THIS
INTERIM.
ARE THEY ALSO THE SUBJECT OF
SECRET BILATERAL
MOLLIFICATIONS.
>> IT'S NOT SECRET.
WE TALKED TO THE ISRAELIS
ALL OF THE TIME AS WE DO TO
ALL OF OUR PARTNERS AND
ALLIES, IN THE GULF, WHO
HAVE A LOT OF INTEREST OF
WHAT IS HAPPEN THERE BECAUSE
THEY CARE ABOUT WHAT IS
HAPPENING IN THE THE REGION
AND GEO POLITICAL
CONSEQUENCES REGARDING IRAN.
BUT ON THE NUCLEAR DEAL,
ISRAEL, THE UNITED STATES
AND ALL THE GULF STATES
SHARE THE SAME OBJECTIVE,
IRAN WILL NOT, CANNOT,
SHOULD NOT HAVE A NUCLEAR
WEAPON.
THE PRESIDENT HAS BEEN VERY
CLEAR THAT HE WILL STOP THAT
FROM HAPPENING.
SO WE AGREE ON THE
OBJECTIVE.
TACTICALLY, WE MAY DISAGREE
FROM TIME TO TIME.
>> Ifill: FROM TIME TO TIME.
IS PART OF THAT OBJECTIVE
ALSO NORMALLIZATION
EVENTUALLY WITH IRAN.
RELATIONSHIPS THAT IS?
>> I THINK WE ARE A LONG WAY
OFF FROMMENT THAT.
I KNOW "THE WALL STREET
JOURNAL" OP ED THAT WAS
WRITTEN BY SECRETARY
KISSINGER AND SCHULTZ, WHICH
LAID OUT THREE OBJECTIVES
GOING TO THE FUTURE, ONE WAS
A LIMITED CAPACITY IN IRAN
FOR A CIVIL NUCLEAR PROGRAM
WITH SEVERE LIMITS THAT
COULD GIVE CONFIDENCE TO THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY.
THEY ALSO TALKED ABOUT WHERE
WE MIGHT HEAD WITH IRAN IN
TERMS OF A RELATIONSHIP WITH
THEM GOING FORWARDMENT BUT I
THINK THAT'S MANY YEARS OFF.
>> Ifill: FAR DOWN THE ROAD.
WENDY SCHERRMAN,
UNDERSECRETARY FOR POLITICAL
AFFAIRS AND LEAD NEGOTIATOR
IN THE IRAN TALK, THANK YOU
SO MUCH FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU, GWEN.
>> Woodruff: TUESDAY'S DECISIONS
IN DETROIT AND ILLINOIS PUT A
DRAMATIC SPOTLIGHT ON PUBLIC
WORKERS' PENSIONS AND WHY
THEY'RE UNDER INCREASING
PRESSURE IN STATES AND CITIES
FACING HUGE DEBT PROBLEMS.
THE FIGHTS ARE CHARGED WITH MORE
SKIRMISHES TO COME IN COURT, BUT
THIS WEEK'S ACTION MAY BE
CHANGING THE LANDSCAPE.
THE BATTLE OVER THE PUBLIC
EMPLOYEE PENSION CRUNCH IN
ILLINOIS-- THE NATION'S WORST--
CAME TO A HEAD YESTERDAY, AS
STATE LAWMAKERS VOTED
TO ELIMINATE A $100 BILLION
UNFUNDED LIABILITY.
IT PASSED WITH BIPARN
SUPPORT, ALTHOUGH THE VOTES WERE
CLOSE, AND SOME WERE MORE
ENTHUSIASTIC THAN OTHERS.
>> I THINK IT'S A WIN-WIN AND
THE EXCUSES I'M HEARING FROM
PEOPLE WHO DON'T WANT TO SUPPORT
IT DON'T ADD UP TO ME.
>> THIS IS HARD FOR LOT A OF
PEOPLE IN OUR STATE SO IT'S NOT
SOMETHING THAT I FEEL JOY ABOUT.
>> Woodruff: THE MEASURE CUTS
COST-OF-LIVING INCREASES FOR
CURRENT AND FUTURE RETIREES AND
RAISES THE RETIREMENT AGE FOR
THO UNDSEER 45.
MANY AREN'T HAPPY ABOUT IT.
>> WHEN YOU'VE BEEN EMPLOYED BY
THE STATE FOR 20 YEARS AND
YOU'RE COUNTING ON YOUR BENEFITS
BEING "X" AND THERE IS A
POSSIBILITY THAT THAT NEST EGG
THAT YOU'VE BEEN COUNTING ON IS
GOING TO BE REDUCED AS A RESULT
OF PENSION REFORM IT'S A BIT
DAUNTING.
>> Woodruff: GOVERNOR PAT QUINN,
a DEMOCRAT, SAYS HE WILL SIGN
THE BILL, BUT LEADERS OF PUBLIC
EMPLOYEE UNIONS SAY THEY WILL
SUE.
>> WE THINK THIS IS THE TRIUMPH
OF POLITICS OVER THE RULE OF LAW
AND THEREFORE WE WILL BE IN
COURT.
>> Woodruff: ILLINOIS IS
FOLLOWING IN THE FOOTSTEPS OF
RHODE ISLAND, WHICH OVERHAULED
ITS PENSION LAWS IN 2011 TO
REDUCE BENEFITS.
AND BANKRUPT CITIES ARE MOVING
TO CURB PENSION PLANS AS WELL.
A FEDERAL JUDGE CLEARED THE WAY
YESTERDAY FOR DETROIT'S
BANKRUPTCY TO GO FORWARD.
THE CITY'S EMERGENCY MANAGER,
KEVYN ORR, PROMISED A THOUGHTFUL
AND MEASURED APPROACH.
>> APPROXIMATELY 40% OF EVERY
DOLLAR THAT THE CITY TAKES IN
THE GENERAL FUND GOES TO PAYING
LEGACY DEBTS, PENSION
OBLIGATIONS, SOME OF WHICH ARE
UNFUNDED, OR DEBT.
THAT'S JUST NOT SUSTAINABLE
BECAUSE IN THE NEXT THREE TO
FOUR YEARS, THAT NUMBER'S GOING
TO GO TO ALMOST 65%, ALMOST TWO-
THIRDS.
>> Woodruff: THE RULING COULD
HAVE IMPLICATIONS ELSEWHERE,
ESPECIALLY CALIFORNIA; STOCKTON
AND SAN BERNARDINO MAY TACKLE
PENSION COSTS AS PART OF THEIR
BANKRUPTCY PROCEEDINGS.
WE TACKLE THE QUESTION NOW OF
WHETHER THESE PENSION
OBLIGATIONS SHOULD BE TARGETED
FOR CUTS AND IF SO, HOW THEY
SHOULD BE HANDLED.
STEVEN KREISBERG IS THE DIRECTOR
OF COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AND
HEALTH CARE POLICY WITH AFSCME,
THE AMERICAN FEDERATION OF
STATE, COUNTY AND MUNCIPAL
EMPLOYEES.
THE UNION IS APPEALING THE
JUDGE'S DECISION IN DETROIT.
AND ANDREW G. BIGGS IS A
RESIDENT SCHOLAR AT THE AMERICAN
ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE.
HE SERVED AS THE PRINCIPAL
DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF THE
SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION
UNDER GEORGE W. BUSH.
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: STEVEN
KREISBERG, TO YOU FIRST.
THE BASIC QUESTION HERE I
THINK IS SHOULD PUBLIC
EMPLOYEES WHO HAVE DONE
THEIR TIME WORKING FOR THE
GOVERNMENT, ARE NOW RETIRED,
BE SUBJECT TO ANY KIND OF
CUTS WHEN THE CITY OR THE
STATE THEY WORK FOR IS
FACING TERRIBLE FISCAL
CRISIS, AND AN UNDERFUNDED
PENSION FUND?
>> WELL, THE UNDERFUNDING OF
THESE PENSION FUNDS HAS
NOTHING TO DO WITH THE
WORKERS.
THE WORKERS, AS YOU HAVE
SAID, HAVE SERVED THEIR
CITY.
THEY PUT IN THEIR TIME.
THEY'VE DONE THE SERVICES
THAT THEY'VE BEEN PAID TO
PROVIDE.
THE PENSION IS A FORM OF
DEFERRED COMPENSATION.
SO TYPICALLY WHEN PEOPLE DO
THE SERVICE, THEY GET PAID.
YOU KNOW, BECOMING A
DEADBEAT ON A PENSION AS THE
CITY OF DETROIT IS PROPOSING
TO DO IS NOT CONSISTENT WITH
THE VALUES, I THINK, OF JUST
ABOUT ANYBODY IN AMERICA.
SO IT'S REALLY NOT A CASE
WHERE THE WORKERS WHO ARE
NOW RETIRED ARE SEEKING
SOMETHING TO WHICH THEY ARE
NOT ENTITLED.
THE PENSION ISN'T PROVIDED
AS A GIFT, IT'S PROVIDED IN
COMPENSATION FOR SERVICE
PREVIOUSLY PROVIDED.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT THIS
ARGUMENT THAT THESE WORKERS
ARE ENTITLED TO THIS THEY
PUT THEIR OWN MONEY INTO T
AND IT'S BREAKING FAITH, IN
FACT, NOT TO GIVE THEM WHAT
THEY SAID THEY WERE GOING TO
GET.
>> I DON'T THINK YOU WANT TO
TAKE AN ALL OR NOTHING
APPROACH.
IT WOULD BE IRRESPONSIBLE,
IT WOULD BE UNFAIR TO TREAT
RETIREES IN A PLACE LIKE
DETROIT OR CALIFORNIA CITIES
THE SAME WAY YOU WOULD TREAT
BONDHOLDERS WHO ARE ALL
GOING TO GET PENNIES BACK ON
THE DOLLAR FOR THEIR
INVESTMENTS.
AT THE SAME TIME, THOUGH,
THE CITIES AND STATES NEED
FLEXIBILITY TO MAKE CHANGES.
IT SHOULDN'T MEAN DRASTIC
CUTS TO CURRENT RETIREES,
BUT IT SHOULD MEAN THE
ABILITY TO CHANGE THE WAY
THE BENEFITS ARE EARNED
GOING FORWARD SO THAT YOU
CAN GET ON TOP OF THESE
PROBLEMS.
>> Woodruff: LET'S JUST TAKE
A PIECE OF THAT, STEVEN
KREISBERG, BASICALLY WHAT
HE'S SAYING IS WE'RE NOT
TALKING ABOUT COMPLETELY
DISMAENLTING THESE PENSIONS
BUT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT, I
TOU SUGGEST, ANDREW
BIGGS, REASONABLE
ADJUSTMENTS.
WHEN THE ENTIRE CITY OR
STATE IS HAVING A PAY CUT.
>> I THINK WHAT AN GREW IS
TALKING ABOUT IS ADJUSTMENT
ON AN ONGOING BASIS.
IN THE CITIES OF DETROIT WE
AGREED ALMOST TWO YEARS AGO
TO SUCH ADJUSTMENTS.
WE WOULD EARN LESS PENSION
BENEFITS GOING FORWARD.
BUT WHAT ANDREW DID NOT
SUGGEST AND WHAT THE CITY OF
DETROIT IS DOING AND WHAT
THE STATE OF ILLINOIS IS
DOING IS TAKING AWAY
BENEFITS THAT HAVE ALREADY
BEEN EARNED.
YOU DON'T ALLOW THAT IN THE
PRIVATE SECTOR.
WE HAVE A LAW CALLED ALISA
WHICH IS RETIREMENT INCOME
SECURITY ACT AND IT PROTECTS
EMPLOYEESMENT WE HAVE NO
SUCH PROTECTIONS IN THE
PUBLIC SECTOR.
IRONICALLY, BECAUSE WE
THOUGHT THEY WOULD NEVER BE
NECESSARY.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT THAT,
THAT THIS IS SOMETHING
DIFFERENT, THAT DETROIT AND
THE STATE OF ILLINOIS ARE
LOOKING AT.
>> OH, SURE, THIS IS
COMPLETELY DIFFERENT.
DETROIT IS IN BANKRUPTCY
BECAUSE THEY CANNOT SERVICE
ITS DEBTS.
SOME OF THE BIGGEST
OBLIGATIONS IT HAS ARE TO
RETIREES THROUGH PENSIONS OR
TO RETIREE HEALTH BENEFITS.
SO THEY NEED SOME WAY TO
MAKE THEIR FINANCES VIABLE.
>> Rooney: .
>> Woodruff: ARE YOU SAYING
THAT IS WARRANTED IN THESE
CASE MS. ?
>> THE JUDGE IN THE DETROIT
BANKRUPTCY CASE SAID YES T
IS WARRANTED.
THESE SHOULD BE ON THE
TABLE.
THEY ARE CONTRACTUAL
OBLIGATIONS BUT BANKRUPTCIES
IS A TIME WHEN CONTRACTS BE
CHANGED TO MAKE THE CITY
MORE FINANCIALLY VIABLE
GOING FORWARD.
STEVE IS RIGHT.
THE PRIVATE PENSIONEDS,
YOU'RE NOT A YOU LOOED TO
RENEGE ON PAST BENEFITS.
AT THE SAME TIME THOUGH F A
COMPANY GOES BANKRUPT THERE
ARE AT LEAST SOME REDUCTION
MADE TO PENSION BENEFITS.
SO I THINK THINGS NEED TO
AGAIN BE SEEN NOT IN AN ALL
OR NOTHING APPROACH.
WE CAN SLASH BENEFITS BUT
MODEST ADJUSTMENTS AND
ESPECIALLY CHANGES GOING
FORWARD, I THINK, ARE NEEDED
TO GET THINGS BACK ON A
BETTER TRACK.
>> Woodruff: WHY AREN'T THEN
MODERATE ADJUSTMENTS IN
SITUATIONS LIKE WHAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT, IN A CITY
LIKE DETROIT, A STATE LIKE
ILLINOIS AND OTHER
MUNICIPALITIES THAT ARE
FACING THIS, WHY ISN'T AN
ADJUSTMENT THAT IS MODERATE
REASONABLE SOMETHING THAT
EMPLOYEES CAN ACCEPT?
>> WELL, I THINK FIRST OF
ALL DETROIT AND ILLINOIS ARE
TWO VERY, VERY DIFFERENT
CIRCUMSTANCES.
ILLINOIS IS THE STATE WITH
THE FIFTH HIGHEST GDP, GROSS
DOMESTIC STATE PRODUCT IT
HAS VERY HIGH LEVELS OF
INCOME IT IS NOT AN
IMPOVERISHED STATE AT ALL,
BY ANY STRETCH OF THE
IMAGINATION.
DETROIT IS A TROUBLED CITY.
IT'S LOST TREMENDOUS
EMPLOYMENT.
IT'S BEEN DISPROPORTIONATELY
AFFECT BY NAFTA AND THE AUTO
INDUSTRY, IT'S LOST
POPULATION.
AND THEY ARE TWO RADICALLY
DIFFERENT CASES AM BUT STILL,
TO YOUR QUESTION, MODERATE
ADJUSTMENTS, AND THE
QUESTION OF MODERATE
ADJUSTMENTS IS IN THE EYE OF
THE BEHOLDER.
THE AVERAGE RETIREE-- RETIREE
IN DETROIT IS $19,000 IT
THAT IS THE AVERAGEMENT
THERE ARE MANY WITH $12,000
A YEAR PENSIONS.
SO IF WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
MODERATE ADJUSTMENTS, ARE
YOU SAYING $10, ARE YOU
SAYING $100 A MONTH?
WELL, THE EMERGENCY MANAGE
NEVER DETROIT IS TALKING
ABOUT 16 CENTS ON THE
DOLLAR.
IS THAT A MODERATE
ADJUSTMENT.
WE SAY NOT.
IN THE STATE OF ILLINOIS IT
IS A COMPLETELY DIFFERENT
CIRCUMSTANCES.
THIS IS A STATE THAT THE
VERY SAME DAY VOTED TO TAKE
AWAY RETIREE'S PENSION
BENEFITS AN CUT THOSE
BENEFITS, ADOPTED A
MULTIMILLION DOLLAR TAX CUT
FOR MULTINATIONAL
CORPORATION WITHIN THAT
STATE.
SO THE STATE IS NOT
IMPOVERISHED.
THE STATE IS CHOOSING
PRIORITIES THAT ARE
DIFFERENT THAN THE CITIZENS
HAVE CHOSEN BY ADOPTING A
CONSTITUTIONAL PROTECTION OF
PENSION BENEFITS.
>> Woodruff: ANDREW BIGGS
WHAT ABOUT THAT, AND WHAT
ABOUT THE BIGGER PICTURE
HERE, THAT THE BLAME, THAT
IF THERE IS GOING TO BE PAIN,
THE PAIN SHOULD BE SPREAD,
THAT IT SHOULDN'T BE MAINLY
OR EVEN IN LARGE PART THESE
PEOPLE WHO HAVE WORKED SO
HARD FOR THESE CITIES.
>> UH-HUH.
I SUSPECT IN THE CASE OF
DETROIT, IT'S NOT GOING TO
BE MAINLY OR IN LARGE PART
ON THE PENSIONERS, IT GOING
TO BE MOSTLY ON THE
BONDHOLDERS WHO ARE GOING TO
GET HIT MUCH MORE.
I MEAN STEVE IS RIGHT WHEN
HE CITES THE AVERAGE
BENEFITS PEOPLE RECEIVE FROM
PENSIONS.
THAT INCLUDES A LOT OF
PEOPLE WHO SPENT A FEW YEARS
IN PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT AND ARE
GETTING VERY SMALL BENEFITS.
IF YOU ARE SOMEBODY WHO
SPENT A FULL CAREER WORKING
FOR THE CITY OF DETROIT, YOU
WOULD RETIRE WITH A BENEFIT
EQUAL OF AROUND TWO-THIRDS
YOUR FINAL SALARY.
WOULD YOU HAVE A 401(k), ON
WHICH THE CITY GUARANTEED
YOU 8% RETURNS.
WOULD YOU HAVE YO SOCURIAL
SECURITY BENEFITS ON TOP OF
THAT.
YOU WOULD HAVE PEOPLE
RETIRING AT AGE 60 WITH A
BENEFIT EQUAL TO 100% OR
MORE OF THEIR FINAL SALARY,
NOT MANY PRIVATE SECTOR
WORKERS GET THAT.
SO I'M NOT SAYING THE
IMPOVERISHED SHOULD BE
THROWN OUT INTO THE STREET.
BUT WE, I THINK REASONABLE
CHANGES HERE TO HAVE SOME
PARODY IN TERMS OF THE
TREATMENT.
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU
RESPOND?
>> WELL, I THINK THE FACTS
ARE INCORRECT.
THE AVERAGE WAGE OF THE
CURRENT WORKFORCE IS ABOUT
$37,000 IN THE BARGAINING
UNITS SO EVEN AT A
TWO-THIRDS REPLACEMENT RATE
WE ARE TALKING ABOUT
SOMETHING FAR BELOW WHAT IS
ADEQUATE.
IN ADDITION TO THAT THAT IS
THE AVERAGE CURRENT WAGE.
SO WE HAVE RETIREES WHO
RETIRED, AND THEIR WAGES
WERE MAYBE 23, 24,000 A
YEAR.
SO WE'RE SEEING A PLACE
PROBABLY CLOSER TO 50% OR
40% IN A LOT OF CASES AS
WELL.
SO ITS IDEA THAT THERE IS A
LOT OF SHORT TIMERS
DISTORTING THAT AVERAGE SAY
MATHEMATICAL NUMBER WE CAN
DEBATE BUT THE REAL QUESTION
IS WHAT ARE THE VALUES, IS
IT MORALLY RIGHT TO CUT
PEOPLE'S PENSION.
UNLIKE CORPORATIONS AND
BANKS, THE RETIREE DOESN'T
HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
RESTRUCTURE AND REORGANIZE
THEIR FINANCES.
THEY CAN'T HIRE $800 AN HOUR
LAWYERS TO DO THAT FOR THEM
SO THEY ARE STRUGGLING TO
PUT FOOD ON THE TABLE,
PRESCRIPTION MEDICINES IN
THEIR BODIES TO KEEP THEM
ALIVE.
AND THESE ARE TOUGH CHOICES
FOR THEM NOW THAT THEIR
INCOME WILL BE CUT BY MAYBE
HALF OR MORE.
>> Woodruff: WITHIN 20
SECONDS, HOW DO YOU RESPOND
TO THAT?
>> WELL, AGAIN, IT'S GOING
TO DEPEND, AND THE JUDGE IN
THE BANKRUPTCY CASE MADE
VERY CLEAR, IT IS GOING TO
DEPEND ON THE SPECIFICS OF
WHAT THE CITY MANAGER COMES
BACK WITH IN DETROIT.
HE SAYS YOU-- PENSIONS ARE
ON THE TABLE.
YOU'RE TO THE GOING TO GET
ANYTHING YOU NECESSARILY ASK
FOR.
SO I THINK THEY'RE GOING TO
HAVE TO COME BACK WITH
SOMETHING THAT TRIES TO
ADDRESS THE CONCERNS STEVE
HAS.
BUT ALSO SAYS HOW DO WE MAKE
THESE CITIES VIABLE GOING
FORWARD.
IT'S-- DETROIT IS AN
EXPLICIT BANKRUPTCY.
OTHER CITIES AROUND THE
COUNTRY ARE FACING
INCREASING PRESSURE.
>> Woodruff: ANDREW BIGGS,
STEVEN KREISBERG, WE THANK
YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: TOMORROW THE UNITED
NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL WILL
VOTE ON SENDING FORCES INTO THE
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC, WHERE
12 MORE CIVILIANS WERE KILLED IN
FIGHTING TODAY.
THE FRENCH HAVE ALREADY
DISPATCHED MORE THAN 600
SOLDIERS INTO THE TROUBLED
NATION, WITH MORE ON THE WAY.
THE C.A.R. HAS FALLEN INTO CHAOS
SINCE REBELS SEIZED CONTROL OF
THE CAPITAL LAST SPRING.
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM ALEX
THOMPSON OF "INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS."
A WARNING SOME IMAGES MAY BE
DISTURBING TO SOME VIEWERS.
>> TOMORROW THE UNITED
NATIONS VOTES FOR WHAT THEY
PRAY HERE WILL BE A ROBUST
PEACEKEEPING, THAT IS URGENTLY
NEEDED.
IN THE CAPITOL BANGUI THE
FRENCH ARMY PRESENCE IS
BEEFING UP BUT THEY WILL
NEED MORE TRANSPORTLAN PES.
THE COUNTRYNT IS DESCENDING
RAPIDLY INTO VIOLENT CHAOS.
WE FLEW WEST THIS MORNING IT
SEEMED WISE-- THEY KILLED 15
PEOPLE ON THE ROAD JUST
YESTERDAY.
AS WE LAND, SOLDIERS FROM
THE AFRICAN U.N. FORCE STAND
GUARD.
IT'S NEAR SILENT.
TENSE.
THESE MEN SAY THE SELEKA
ENGAGE THEM DALEY.
EF REMAIN NEEDS SECURITY.
MINUTES LATER SUDDEN URGENCY.
THE RED CROSS PAYLOAD, 16
PEOPLE WITH GUNSHOT WOUNDS,
MOSTLY WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
LIKE THIS THREE-YEAR-OLD.
THE CASUALTIES ARE TAKEN TO
WHAT PASSES FOR THE
HOSPITAL.
AND WE LEARN MORE ABOUT THE
LITTLE CHILD SHOT THROUGH
THE PUT OKAYS BETWEEN THE
GUNMEN AND THE MILITIA.
THEY DESCRIBE HOW THREE
OTHER CHILDREN WERE KILLED
AND HIS WIFE.
HE SAYS, IS ALL I HAVE LEFT.
ON THE BED NEXT DOOR,
ANOTHER, UNSMILING
TRAUMATIZED CHILD CASUALTY.
WHAT DOES LIFE HOLD IN THE
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC FOR
A LITTLE GIRL WHOSE RIGHT
ARM HAS BEEN SHOT OFF.
FOR LESLEY, EVERYTHING ABOUT
LIFE HAS NOW CHANGED.
AND YOU DO NOT HAVE TO GO
FAR TO SEE WHERE THE
VIOLENCE IS HAPPENING.
THE VILLAGE, OR WHAT IS LEFT
OF IT, IS JUST A FEW MILES
NORTH.
COOKING IN A BURNED OUT
SHELL.
SELEKA GUNMAN HEARD A RUMOR
THAT THIS WAS AN OPPOSITION
VILLAGE.
THEY CAME, LOOTED, SHOT THE
PLACE UP.
AND BURNED MUCH OF IT TO THE
GROUND.
HUNDREDS ARE STILL OUT THERE
IN THE BUSH, THEY SAY, TOO
TERRIFIED TO COME HOME.
SO WHAT SECURITY DO YOU HAVE
HERE NOW?
WHO CAN PROTECT YOU?
>> WE DON'T HAVE ANY
SECURITY HERE.
>> NO POLICE, NO ARMY?
>> NO POLICE, NO ARMY, ONLY
SELEKA PEOPLE THAT COME
HERE.
>> EVERY WEEK MORE AND MORE
VILLAGES LIKE THIS ARE
APPEARING ACROSS THIS
COUNTRY.
AND THE UNITED NATIONS IS
ALREADY SPEAKING OF THE
POTENTIAL FOR GENOCIDE HERE.
IF NOTHING IS DONE, IT SEEMS
PRETTY PLAIN, THIS COUNTRY
WILL BECOME ANOTHER DISASTER
ZONE LIKE CONGO, LIKE SUDAN
OR LIKE SOMALIA.
BUT ON THIS OCCASION, FOR
ONCE, JUST POSSIBLY, THEY
HAVE THE CHANCE TO INTERVENE
IF IT TAKES DECISIVE ACTION
AND TAKES IT FAST.
THIS WEEK COULD MARK THE
BEGINNING OF THAT DECISIVE
ACTION.
BUT HOW LONG UNTIL ANYONE ON
THE GROUND HERE REALLY FEELS
ANY SAFER.
>> YOU CAN LEARN MORE ABOUT
THE HUMANITARIAN CRISIS
PLAGUING THE CENTRAL AFRICAN
REPUBLIC ON OUR WORLD PAGE.
>> Woodruff: WHAT IS IT LIKE AND
WHAT DOES IT TAKE TO CAPTURE THE
WORLD WITH A CAMERA?
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR LOOK AT A
OUP OF WOMEN OF VISION.
>> Brown: TWO BOYS CHASING A
KITE THROUGH THE RUBBLE OF AN
ANTI-GOVERNMENT STRONGHOLD NEAR
YEMEN'S BORDER.
A HERDER IN NORWAY CHANTING
WHILE TENDING HIS REINDEER.
A FULL MOON HANGING ABOVE THE
HIGHWAY TO MOUNT ST. HELEN'S.
THREE OF THE 100 PHOTOGRAPHS
DEPICTING CULTURES FAR-FLUNG AND
CLOSE TO HOME IN AN EXHIBITION
TITLED, "WOMEN OF VISION:
NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC
PHOTOGRAPHERS ON ASSIGNMENT,"
PART OF THE SOCIETY'S 125th
ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION.
IT SHOWCASES 11 WOMEN, FROM
VETERANS OF THE MAGAZINE TO
SEVERAL WHO'VE COMPLETED JUST A
FEW PROJECTS.
ONE OF THE BEST KNOWN IS 39-
YEAR-OLD LYNSAY ADDARIO, A
PULITZER-PRIZE WINNING WAR
CORRESPONDENT WHO'S COVERED
CONFLICTS FROM IRAQ AND
AFGHANISTAN TO DARFUR AND CONGO
FOR NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC AND THE
NEW YORK TIMES.
>> I GO IN BECAUSE I THINK THE
STORY HAS TO BE TOLD.
LIKE ANY JOURNALIST WHO
DEDICATES THEIR LIFE TO COVERING
CONFLICT.
I FEEL VERY STRONGLY THAT THESE
STORIES NEED TO BE SEEN BY THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC.
>> Brown: PART OF THAT COVERAGE:
CAPTURING THE DAILY LIFE THAT
SOMEHOW GOES ON AMID VIOLENCE.
>> THAT FASCINATES ME.
AS SORT OF SOMEONE WHO IS IN THE
MIDDLE OF THE PLACE, I WANT TO
BRING A DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVE TO
THE PERSON OUTSIDE AND LET THEM
SEE, YES, THERE ARE DAILY CAR
BOMBS, THERE ARE PEOPLE DYING,
BUT AT THE SAME TIME, THERE IS
PEACE GOING ON AND THERE IS
DAILY LIFE CONTINUING.
>> Brown: AND IS THERE A MOMENT
WHEN YOU KNOW YOU'VE GOT IT
SOMEW.
>> THERE'S AN INITIAL MOMENT
WHEN I'M IN SHEER PANIC, WHERE
I'M TRYING TO FIGURE OUT HOW I'M
GOING TO TELL A STORY.
AND THEN AS I BECOME MORE
FAMILIAR WITH IT, I UNDERSTAND
HOW I THINK-WHAT I THINK THE
POIGNANT MOMENTS ARE AND WHAT
THE MOST IMPORTANT MOMENTS ARE.
AND GENERALLY I GET TO A POINT
WHERE I FEEL COMFORTABLE.
AND I'M NEVER SATISFIED, BUT I
AT LEAST FEEL LIKE I HAVE A GOOD
>> Brown: 43-YEAR-OLD AMY TON-
SING HAS FOCUSED ON INDIVIDUALS
AND SMALL COMMUNITIES IN HER 14
ASSIGNMENTS FOR NATIONAL
GEOGRAPHIC:
COMMUNITIES AROUND THE GLOBE:
PUERTO RICO;HE J TERSEY SHORE;
AUSTRALIA'S ABIGINORES; JUST
>> MY JOB IS TO TELL STORIES
ABOUT HUMANITY.
AND IN ORDER TO TELL STORIES,
YOU HAVE TO KNOW YOUR SUBJECT.
AND EVERYTHING GOES BACK TO
HONORING MY SUBJECT.
>> Brown: TOENSING RESEARCHES
HER SUBJECTS THROUGH CURRENT
EVENTS AND HISTORY, BUT ALSO
THROUGH NOVELS.
>> BECAUSE NOVELS SPEAK ON A
VERY VISCERAL LEVEL.
THEY SPEAK ON A MORE SORT OF
EMOTIONAL, LYRICAL LEVEL.
AND I THINK THAT'S HOW
PHOTOGRAPHY WORKS AS WELL.
SO WHEN I'M ABOUT TO GO IN THE
FIELD SOMEPLACE I LOVE TO READ
NOVELS ABOUT A PLACE.
THAT CAN REALLY HELP KIND OF GET
MY MIND GOING ABOUT WHAT'S GOING
TO WORK FOR THE VISUAL
TRANSLATION OF TELLING THE
STORY.
>> Brown: IN 2008 SHE WAS
ASSIGNED TO LOOK AT THE IMPACT
OF CLIMATE CHANGE AND DROUGHT IN
THE MURRAY DARLING BASIN, IN
SOUTHEASTERN AUSTRALIA.
HER WAY IN: FIND A LOCAL FARM
FAMILY AND LOOK THROUGH THEIR
EYES.
>> I SLEPT IN A ROOM IN THEIR
HOUSE FOR PROBABLY ABOUT A WEEK.
AND IN THIS PICTURE, I'M ALONG
FOR THE RIDE.
AND SO I'M LIKE, ALL RIGHT,
CHASING PIGS, I'M WITH YOU.
AND THEN THERE'S A PICTURE.
AND REALLY THAT PICTURE,
OBVIOUSLY IT'S NOT ABOUT PIGS,
BUT IT'S...
>> Brown: AND IT'S NOT
NECESSARILY ABOUT DROUGHT
EITHER, RIGHT?
I MEAN, IF I JUST LOOK AT THE
PHOTOGRAPH.
>> NO, IT'S NOT AUT DBOROUGHT,
IT'S ABOUT PEOPLE.
>> Brown: AT 26, KITRA CAHANA IS
THE YOUNGEST OF THE
PHOTOGRAPHERS IN THIS
EXHIBITION.
HER FIRST FEATURE ASSIGNMENT FOR
THE MAGAZINE WAS ABOUT THE
TEENAGE BRAIN AND BEHAVIOR:
IN AN AUSTIN, TEXAS HIGH SCHOOL,
SHE FOUND A GIRL'S FACE
REFLECTED IN THE MIRROR OF HER
PARENTS' TRUCK; GIRLS GETTING
THEIR TONGUES PIERCED; BOYS
TAKING VIDEO OF A BOXING MATCH
TO POST ON FACEBOOK.
AT THE TIME CAHANA WAS JUST FOUR
YEARS OLDER THAN SOME OF
SUBJECTS SHE SPENT MONTHS
GETTING TO KNOW.
WERE YOU TALKING PHOTOS ALL THE
WAY THROUGH?
OR WHEN DO YOU START?
>> I THINK YOU START AS SOON AS
YOU DEVELOP A RELATIONSHIP WITH
SOMEONE AND THEY LET YOU IN,
INTO THEIR LIVES.
SLOWLY OVER THE COURSE OF THE
ASSIGNMENT, I DIDN'T HAVE TO GO
TO CLASSES ANYMORE OR SIT IN THE
LUNCHROOM BECAUSE SOMEONE WOULD
TEXT ME AND SAY, "WE'RE SKIPPING
SCHOOL TODAY, DO YOU WANT TO
COME?"
OR "WE'RE GOING TO THIS PARTY,
YOU WANT TO COME?"
AND IT WAS REALLY ABOUT HAVING
THE TIME TO SLOWLY UNCOVER, NOT
THE SECRET LIVES, BUT THE
PERSONAL LIVES OF TEENAGERS.
>> Brown: I ASKED CAHANA, AMID
THIS EXHIBITION OF WOMEN
PHOTOGRAPHERS, HOW BEING A WOMAN
IMPACTS HER WORK.
>> SOMETIMES BECAUSE I'M A
WOMAN-- I MEAN, ALL KINDS OF
SITUATIONS-- I'M SEEN LESS AS A
THREAT.
THEY'LL THINK, "OH, THAT'S THE
FACE OF THE QUIET KIND PERSON,
NOT THE FACE OF A NATIONAL
GEOGRAPHIC, THE MEDIA."
>> Brown: LYNSEY ADDARIO TOLD US
SHE'S HAD AN ADVANTAGE AS A
WOMAN WORKING IN THE SEGREGATED
SOCIETY OF THE MUSLIM WORLD,
WHERE SHE COULD SEE AND CAPTURE
A HOME LIFE LARGELY OFF-LIMITS
TO HER MALE COUNTERPARTS.
ADDARIO WAS KIDNAPPED IN 2004 IN
IRAQ AND THEN AGAIN IN 2011 IN
LIBYA, WHERE SHE AND THREE MALE
COLLEAGUES AT THE "NEW YORK
TIMES" WERE HELD CAPTIVE BY PRO-
QADDAFI FORCES FOR SIX DAYS
BEFORE BEING RELEASED.
SOME TIMES READERS WERE OUTRAGED
AT THE PAPER.
"HOW COULD THE 'NEW YORK
TIMES'"-- I'M QUOTING WHAT YOU
WERE READING-- "HOW COULD THE
'NEW YORK TIMES' LET A WOMAN GO
TO A WAR ZONE?"
YOU SAID YOU FOUND THAT GROSSLY
OFFENSIVE.
>> I DID FIND IT REALLY
I STILL FIND IT OFFENSIVE TODAY,
OFFENSIVE.
BECAUSE I THINK THAT THIS IS MY
I STILL FIND IT OFFENSIVE TODAY,
LIFE.
BECAUSE I THINK THAT THIS IS MY
I HAVE VERY SET REASONS FOR
LIFE.
DOING WHAT I DO, AND I THINK
I HAVE VERY SET REASONS FOR
THAT IF I WANT TO DEDICATE MY
DOING WHAT I DO, AND I THINK
LIFE TO COVERING WAR, THAT'S MY
THAT IF I WANT TO DEDICATE MY
PREROGATIVE.
LIFE TO COVERING WAR, THAT'S MY
WHY SHOULD MY GENDER AFFECT WHAT
PREROGATIVE.
I DO?
WHY SHOULD MY GENDER AFFECT WHAT
IF I'M CAPABLE OF DOING THE SAME
I DO?
JOB AS A MAN, WHY SHOULD IT
IF I'M CAPABLE OF DOING THE SAME
MATTER IF I'M A WOMAN?
JOB AS A MAN, WHY SHOULD IT
>> Brown: AS TO WHETHER A
MATTER IF I'M A WOMAN?
THIS SHOWCASE OF WOMEN
>> Brown: AS TO WHETHER A
PHOTOGRAPHERS IS IN WASHINGTON
THIS SHOWCASE OF WOMEN
THROUGH MARCH AND THEN AT VENUES
PHOTOGRAPHERS IS IN WASHINGTON
ACROSS THE COUNTRY FOR THE NEXT
THROUGH MARCH AND THEN AT VENUES
THREE YEARS.
ACROSS THE COUNTRY FOR THE NEXT
>> Woodruff: YOU CAN SEE MORE OF
THREE YEARS.
THESE ARRESTING PHOTOS FROM ALL
>> Woodruff: YOU CAN SEE MORE OF
11 PHOTOGRAPHERS.
THESE ARRESTING PHOTOS FROM ALL
THAT'S ON ART BEAT.
>> Ifill: WE'LL BE BACK SHORTLY
WITH A NEW STUDY THAT SHOWS
YOUNG PEOPLE ARE NOT BUYING INTO
THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
BUT FIRST: WE ARE TAKING A SHORT
BREAK TO ALLOW YOUR PUBLIC
TELEVISION STATION TO ASK FOR
YOUR SUPPORT.
AND THAT SUPPORT HELPS KEEP
PROGRAMS LIKE OURS ON THE AIR.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
PRESIDENT OBAMA MADE AN APPEAL
TO YOUNG PEOPLE TODAY TO ENROLL
IN HEALTH INSURANCE EXCHANGES TO
HELP THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
SUCCEED.
HE URGED THEM TO THINK OF THE
>> SOMETIMES IN THIS DEBATE,
WHAT WE'VE HEARD ARE PEOPLE
SAYING, "WELL, I DON'T NEED
THIS.
I DON'T WANT THIS.
YOU KNOW, WHY ARE YOU IMPINGING
ON MY FREEDOM TO DO WHATEVER I
WANT?"
AND, PART OF WHAT I SAY TO FOLKS
WHEN THEY TELL ME THAT IS, IF
YOU GET SICK AND YOU GET SENT TO
THE HOSPITAL AND YOU DON'T HAVE
ANY COVERAGE, THEN SOMEBODY ELSE
IS ALSO GOING TO BE PAYING FOR
IT.
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT MADE
HIS PITCH AS A NEW SURVEY FROM
HARVARD UNIVERSITY REVEALS THAT,
AS OF A MONTH AGO, THE 18- TO
29-YEAR-OLD GENERATION WAS
SKEPTICAL OF THE AFFORDABLE CARE
ACT.
FEWER THAN 40% SAID THEY
APPROVED OF THE LAW;  MORE THAN
56% DISAPPROVED.
THE POLL ALSO FOUND MR. OBAMA TO
BE AT HIS LOWEST APPROVAL RATING
SINCE TAKING OFFICE.
JOHN DELLA VOLPE IS DIRECTOR OF
POLLING AT THE INSTITUTE OF
POLITICS AT HARVARD AND IS HERE
TO DISCUSS THE FINDINGS.
, JOHN, WELCOME BACK TO
THE PROGRAM.
SO YOU FOUND THESE NUMBERS
THERE POLLING OF JUST ABOUT
A MONTH AGO.
TELL US WHAT THE NUMBERS
WERE WHEN IT CAME TO THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT?
>> SO OVERALL, JUDY, WE
FOUND THAT BY A MARGIN OF
ABOUT TWO-TO-ONE YOUNG
PEOPLE BELIEVE THAT THE
QUALITY OF CARE WILL
ACTUALLY GET WORSE UNDER THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
BY A MARGIN OF FIVE TO ONE
THEY BELIEVE THAT COSTS WILL
INCREASE.
AND AS YOU SAID A MOMENT AGO,
A SOLID MAJORITY DISAPPROVE
OF THE ACT AS OF TODAY.
>> Woodruff: AND WHAT DID
YOU FIND-- SO PRETTY
SIGNIFICANTLY OVERWHELMING
DISAPPROVAL.
WHAT DID YOU FIND ALONG
PARTISAN LINE, DEMOCRATS,
REPUBLICANS, INDEPENDENTS?
>> A GREAT QUESTION.
ESSENTIALLY 95 OUT OF 100
REPUBLICANS DISAPPROVE OF
THE OBAMACARE OR AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT.
WE ACTUALLY AT HALF OF OUR
POLLING A THOUSAND PEOPLE
ABOUT QUESTIONS RELATED TO
AT FORDABLE CARE AGO.
THE OTHER HALF ABOUT
OBAMACARE.
ESSENTIALLY THE NUMBERS ARE
ABOUT THE SAME.
AND DEMOCRATS WERE
SIGNIFICANTLY MORE LIKELY TO
SUPPORT.
>> Woodruff: ANY GREATER
SENSE OF WHY PEOPLE, WHY
THESE YOUNG PEOPLE FEEL SO
STRONGLY?
>> YEAH, THERE WAS-- WE'RE
NOT ACTUALLY TOO SURPRISED
BY THIS.
FOR THE LAST SEVERAL CYCLES
THAT WE'VE POLLED, WE'VE
SEEN THE OVERALL LEVEL OF
TRUST BETWEEN YOUNG PEOPLE
AND THE POWERS WITHIN
WASHINGTON, D.C. WHETHER THE
ADMINISTRATION, REPUBLICANS,
DEMOCRATS IN CONGRESS,
ACTUALLY KIND OF LOSE TRUST
EVERY SINGLE DAY.
SO NUMBER ONE, COMING OUT OF
WASHINGTON, D.C. WOULD HAVE
A LARD TIME GETTING TRACTION
AMONG MILLENNIALS.
ALSO WHEN YOU TAKE A STEP
BACK.
WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT THE
MESSAGES THAT MILLENNIALS
HAVE BEEN HEARING, IT IS
LESS ABOUT THEM, THE
BENEFITS TO THEM.
IT IS MORE ABOUT IT IS
NECESSARY FOR THEM TO JOIN
IN ORDER TO COMPENSATE FOR
OLDER, SICKER AMERICANS.
SO I DON'T THINK THE
NARRATIVE HAS BEEN
PARTICULARLY TERRIFIC WHEN
IT COMES TO CONNECTING WITH
MILLENNIALS ABOUT THE
BENEFITS THAT THEY WOULD
HAVE ENJOYING ONE OF THESE
EXCHANGES.
>> Woodruff: WE'RE-- WHAT
PERCENTAGE SAID THEY WOULD
ENROLL IN AN EXCHANGE AMONG
THOSE WHO WERE NOT INSURED?
>> WELL, AMONG OT 22% OF
MILLENNIALS WHO ARE NOT
INSURED TODAY, LESS THAN A
THIRD, ABOUT 29% SAID THEY
WILL DEFINITELY OR PROBABLY
ENROLL.
YOU HAVE ABOUT 41% OR SO WHO
ARE IN THE MIDDLE, ON THE
FENCE.
I THINK HOPING TO LISTEN TO
THE PRESIDENT OVER THE NEXT
COUPLE OF WEEKS.
AND THEN YOU V OF COURSE,
THE REMAINER WHO SAID THEY
WON'T ENROLL UNDER ANY
CIRCUMSTANCES.
>> Woodruff: AN WHAT ABOUT
SUPPORT FOR THE PRESIDENT
OVERALL.
WE WERE SAYING A MINUTE AGO
IT IS THAT TOO HAS DROPPED.
WHAT DID YOU FIND THERE?
>> WELL, REMEMBER,
MILLENNIALS WERE THE OUTLIERS,
ONE OF TWO SIGNIFICANT
GROUPS THAT HELPED ELECT THE
PRESIDENT AND RE-ELECT HIM
IN 2012.
UP UNTIL THE LAST YEAR OR SO,
THEY'VE BEEN OUTLIARS.
OVER THE COURSE OF OUR LAST
TWO SURVEYS THEY'VE ACTUALLY
FALLEN QUITE NEATLY WITH THE
REST OF AMERICA, LOOKING A
LOT LIKE THEIR OLDER
BROTHERS AND SISTERS. T
THE PRESIDENT'S APPROVAL
RATING HAS DECREASED BY
ABOUT 11 POINTS
ACROSS-THE-BOARD OVER THE
LAST YEAR.
SIGNIFICANTLY 15 POINTS
AMONG WOMEN, 9 POINTS AMONG
MEN.
EVEN AMONG-- APPROVAL UNDER
50%.
>> AND WHAT DO THEY SAY
ABOUT THE CONGRESS WHICH WE
KNOW IS ALSO SEEING ITS
APPROVAL RATINGS DROP?
>> UNFORTUNATELY, THOSE
NUMBERS ARE BAD AND GETTING
WORSE.
DEMOCRATS IN CONGRESS
CONTINUE TO FALL AND
REPUBLICANS IN CONGRESS ONLY
19% OF ALL,-- OF YOUNG
AMERICANS UNDER THE AGE OF
230 BELIEVE THEY'RE DOING A
GOOD JOB OR APPROVE OF THE
JOB THAT THEY'RE DOING IN
WASHINGTON D.C.
SO AS BAD OF A DAY THIS
MIGHT BE FOR THE PRESIDENT
AND THOSE WHO CARE ABOUT THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT, IT'S
NOT ANY BETTER FOR
REPUBLICANS IN CONGRESS.
>> Woodruff: JOHN, FINALLY,
I WANT TO ASK YOU ABOUT
SOMETHING I FOUND
FASCINATING IN THIS POLL,
AND THAT IS YOUNG PEOPLE'S
VIEW OF THEIR STUDENT LOAN
DEBT BURDEN.
IT IS STRIKING TO ME BECAUSE
IT DIDN'T SEEM TO ALWAYS BE
AFFECTED BY WHAT POLITICAL
PARTY THEY SAY THEY BELONGED
TO.
>> WELL, THAT'S THE THING.
IF THE PRESIDENT AND MEMBERS
OF CONGRESS WANT TO
RECONNECT WITH YOUNG PEOPLE,
THIS IS THE ISSUE TO DO THAT,
TO BUILD SOME OF THAT
SUPPORT.
ECONOMIC ISSUES SPECIFICALLY
ISSUES RELATED TO STUDENT
DEBT IS ONE ISSUE THAT
DEMOCRAT, REPUBLICANS, THEY
CAN ALL AGREE ON.
57% SAY IT IS A MAJOR
PROBLEM.
MAJORITY OF THE PEOPLE FROM
BOTH PARTIES THINK IT'S A
NATIONAL PRIORITY THAT NEEDS
TO BE SET SELLED RIGHT AWAY.
>> Woodruff: AND JUST
QUICKLY, IS THAT SOMETHING
THAT HAS GOTTEN WORSE OVER
TIME, HOW DO YOU SEE THAT?
>> WE HAVEN'T TRACKED THAT
PARTICULAR QUESTION, JUDY
OVER TIME.
BUT WE HAVE SEEN ESPECIALLY
FOR THE MILLENNIALS WHO ARE
UNDER 25, THIS INCREASE,,
AND FOR GOOD REASON ON
ECONOMIC ISSUES.
SO WE HAVE SEEN 90, ALMOST
90% OF YOUNG PEOPLE IN
COMMUNITY COLLEGES ARE
IMPACTED BY THE FINANCIAL
SITUATION.
THESE ARE PEOPLE WHO WANTED
TO GO TO FOUR YEAR COLLEGES,
WHO HAD TO MAKE A DIFFERENT
CHOICE, ATTEND A TWO YEAR OR
COMMUNITY COLLEGE INSTEAD.
SO THAT'S IMPACTING MILLIONS
OF YOUNG PEOPLE ACROSS
AMERICA.
>> JOHN DELLA VOLPE DIRECTOR
OF POLLING AT THE HARVARD
INSTITUTE OF POLITICS, THANK
YOU.
>> THANKS, JUDY.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
THE PRESIDENT SENT HIS TOP IRAN
NEGOTIATOR TO THE CAPITOL,
WARNING TEHRAN MIGHT WALK AWAY
FROM AN INTERIM NUCLEAR DEAL, IF
CONGRESS IMPOSES NEW SANCTIONS.
VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN HAD A TENSE
SESSION WITH CHINA'S PRESIDENT
IN BEIJING, OVER CHINA'S NEW AIR
DEFENSE ZONE AROUND DISPUTED
ISLANDS.
AND THE "WASHINGTON POST"
REPORTED THE NATIONAL SECURITY
AGENCY COLLECTS ROUGHLY FIVE
BILLION RECORDS A DAY ON THE
LOCATION OF CELL PHONES
WORLDWIDE, BASED ON DOCUMENTS
LEAKED BY FORMER N.S.A.
CONTRACTOR EDWARD SNOWDEN.
>> Woodruff:  THEON "NEWSHOUR"
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, ARCHAEOLOGISTS
HAVE DISCOVERED THAT WE'RE ALL
MUTTS.
NEW TESTS ON THE OLDEST-KNOWN
HUMAN D.N.A. REVEAL THAT HOMO
SAPIENS HAVE MORE ANCESTORS THAN
WE HAD PREVIOUSLY THOUGHT.
READ ABOUT THAT ON OUR SCIENCE
PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, FAST-FOOD WORKERS
PLAN STRIKES IN 100 CITIES
ACROSS THE COUNTRY TO PROTEST
LOW-WAGES.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE "PBS
NEWSHOUR," THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.